=head1 NAME

QpBound - A module for solving bound-constrained QPs of moderate size.

=for html
This page is part of the <A HREF=../index.html> OOQP documentation </A>.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

We see a vector x = (x_1,x_2,...,x_n) that solves the following problem

   min_x  c'x + (1/2) x'Qx,  subject to
   x_i >= l_i,  for i in L,
   x_i <= u_i,  for i in U,

where Q is a positive semidefinite matrix, L and U are subsets of
{1,2,...,n}, and l_i and u_i are lower and upper bounds,
respectively. This solver stores Q as a symmetric dense matrix, and
uses dense linear algebra software to solve the linear system at each
interior-point iteration. Therefore, it should not be used to solve
large problems.

=head1 BUILDING THE EXECUTABLE

An implementation of the QpBound solver that uses Gondzio's algorithm
and reads data from a QPS file is supplied with the OOQP
distribution. To generate this executable, first follow the
installation procedures described in the file
L<INSTALL|distribution-docs::INSTALL>. Then, from the main OOQP directory, type

    make qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe

=head1 QPS INPUT FOR THE QPBOUND SOLVER

The QPS file format should be the same as that used for input to the
general QP solvers. This format is described in detail in the OOQP
User Guide. There is one important restriction, however: The QPS file
should not define any elements of a general constraint matrix (since
this cannot be accommodated by the bound-constrained
formulation). Specifically, as well as following the general rules for
QPS file, the format should have the following properties.

The ROWS section should contain a single entry (corresponding to the
name assigned to the linear term c in the objective function).

The COLUMNS section should contain n entries, one for each element of
the vector x. Each entry should name the element of x, name the
objective function, and give the numerical value of the
corresponding component of the linear term c.

The RHS section should be empty. That is, a line "RHS" should appear
in the file, followed immediately by the line "BOUNDS" (indicating
that the RHS section is empty).

The RANGES sections should be absent. (There is no need even for the
line "RANGES" to appear in the file.)

The solver will terminate with an error message if the QPS file does
not have these properties.

We note one aspect of the QPS standard which is significant here: Each
component of x is assumed by default to have a lower bound of 0 and an
upper bound of infinity. When the BOUNDS section specifies only a
lower bound l_i on the component x_i, then the component x_i is
assumed to be bounded as follows: l_i <= x_i. When the BOUNDS section
specifies only an upper bound u_i on x_i, the component x_i is assumed
to be bounded as follows: 0 <= x_i <= u_i. When the BOUNDS section
specifies both a lower bound l_i and an upper bound u_i, the component
x_i is assumed to be bounded as follows: l_i <= x_i <= u_i.

=head1 CALLING THE QPBOUND SOLVER WITH QPS INPUT

Having constructed the B<qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe> executable and an
input file, the solver can be invoked as follows:

B<qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe>  [ options ] filename

where filename is a path to the qps file, and the options are as
follows:

=over 4

=item  --quiet

Print only the solution.

=item --verbose

Print information at each interior-point iteration, and
output from the linear algebra routines, as well as the solution.

=item --print-level N (where N is a nonnegative integer)

If N>=10, print
progress information at each interior-point iteration; if N>=100,
print information from the linear algebra routines.

=back 

If no options are specified, a print-level of 10 is assumed. That is,
progress information from each interior-point iteration is printed,
along with the solution.

=head1 SOLUTION FORMAT

When requested, the solution is printed to the standard output
stream. First the vector x is listed by components, in the same order
as the components appeared in the COLUMNS section of the QPS input
file. Next, the Lagrange multipliers tau for the lower bounds are
printed. Only components of tau for which lower bounds actually are
present in the formulation are listed. Finally, the Lagrange
multipliers nu for the upper bounds are printed. Only components of nu
for which upper bounds actually are present in the formulation are
listed.

=head1 SAMPLE INPUT FILE

We have provided a sample input file examples/QpBound/simple.qps with
the OOQP distribution. To invoke the solver on this file, go to the
directory OOQP and type

  qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe examples/QpBound/simple.qps

If you wish the solver to print only the solution, type instead the
following:

  qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe --quiet examples/QpBound/simple.qps

or

  qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe --print-level N examples/QpBound/simple.qps

where N is some integer between 0 and 9 (inclusive).

=head1 USE WITH PETSC

If you have the PETSc libraries installed, you may build a bound
constrained QP solver that uses PETSc to solve the linear systems that
arise in the QP algorithm. The executable is named
B<qpbound-petsc-mehrotra.exe> and may be called in the following
manner.


B<qpbound-petsc-mehrotra.exe> [ B<-print-level> num ] [ B<-quiet> ] 
[ B<-verbose> ] B<-file> problem.qps

The program options have the same meaning as given above. Not however,
that only a single dash is used, and that the B<-file> switch is
required before the file name. The program also accepts all options
understood by PETSc, allowing the the precoditioner, for instance, to
be set at run time. The program is capable of being run on multiple
processors, but the mechanism for invoking such a run is
system-dependant.

See the PETSc section in the L<INSTALL|distribution-docs::INSTALL/"petsc"> file for
instructions on how to build this executable.


=head1 FIN

=for html
Back to the <A HREF=../index.html> Documentation Roadmap </A>.

=cut
