=head1 SVM

SVM - A module for creating linear support vector machine classifiers.

=for html
This page is part of the <A HREF=../index.html> OOQP documentation </A>.

=head1 USAGE

To read the data from a file:

B<svm-gondzio.exe> [ B<--quiet> ] [ B<--print-solution> ] filename
 [ penalty ]

To generate a random problem for benchmarking:

B<svm-gondzio.exe> [ B<--quiet> ] [ B<--print-solution> ] C<random> 
hdim nobs

where "C<random>" is a literal keyword.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

Linear support vector machine problems take two sets of points in
n-space and attempt to find a hyperplane which separates them. If no
such plane exists, it looks for a plane for which the
misclassification errors are minimized, while satisfying some
regularity condition. For additional details, we refer to Section 6.2
of the paper "Object-Oriented Software for Quadratic Programming" that
is included in this distribution, and to Chapter 5 of V. Vapnik: I<The
Nature of Statistical Learning Theory>, 2nd edition, Springer, 1999.

The SVM module of OOQP accepts as input a collection of points in
n-space, a label for each point (the label taking on one of two
distinct values indicating the set to which the point belongs) and the
value of the penalty parameter, which is the weight on the term in the
objective function indicating violation of the constraints. The output
is an n-vector C<w> and a scalar C<beta> that define the hyperplane. If the
two sets are separable and the penalty parameter is sufficiently
large, then C<(w,beta)> defines a separating hyperplane.


=head1 BUILDING THE EXECUTABLE

An implementation of the SVM solver that uses Gondzio's algorithm and
reads data from an ascii file is supplied with the OOQP
distribution. To generate this executable, first follow the
installation procedures described in the file
L<INSTALL|distribution-docs::INSTALL>.
Then, from the main OOQP directory, type

    make svm-gondzio.exe

=head1 CALLING THE SVM SOLVER WITH ASCII DATA

The input file for the SVM module should contain the dimensions of the
problem followed by the points in the problem and their labels. The
format is as follows:

       l
       n
       x1(1) x1(2) ... x1(n) label_1
       x2(1) x2(2) ... x2(n) label_2
       ...
       xl(1) xl(2) ... xl(n) label_l

where l is an integer representing the number of observations (must be
at least 2); n is the dimension of the space in which all the data
points reside (must be at least 1); C<(xi(1) xi(2) ... xi(n))> represent
the n coordinates of the i-th point, and label_i is a real number
which takes on one of two distinct values, indicating the set to which
point i belongs.

The most common mode for invoking the executable is the following

	svm-gondzio.exe filename penalty

where "filename" is the name of the ascii file containing the data and
"penalty" is the positive real value defining the penalty parameter.
One can also use the format:

	svm-gondzio.exe filename 

which sets the penalty parameter to a default value of 1.0. Output
from the solver will be written to F<filename.out> where the string
"filename" will be replaced by the actual name of the input file. The
output format is

       n
       w_1
       ...
       w_n
       beta

Where n, w and beta are as described above. If label_1 and label_2
have opposite signs, then data with

      w' * x - beta >= 0

is classifed as belonging to the set represented by the positive
label. Otherwise, the first label to be found will be taken to
represent the positive side of the hyperplane.

Finally, to benchmark the efficiency of the solver for certain problem
dimensions, one can type

 
	svm-gondzio.exe random n l

where "random" is a literal keyword, and n and l are the problem
dimensions as defined above.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --quiet

Do not print progress information while the problem is being solved
and do not print the solution to the screen.

=item --print-solution 

Print the solution to the screen when the algorithm is
finished. Overrides the B<--quiet> option. 

The solution is printed by default if it is small (C<hdim> < 20) and
the B<--quiet> option is not in effect. 

=back

=head1 SAMPLE INPUT FILE

We have supplied a real data set with the OOQP distribution which can
be used to test the SVM solver. This set, in file
F<OOQP/examples/Svm/svm.wisconsin.data>, contains breast cancer data
from a Wisconsin study. There are 679 observations of points from
nine-dimensional space. To execute the program with this test data,
make the svm-gondzio.exe file as described above, go to the OOQP
directory, and type

    svm-gondzio.exe ./examples/Svm/svm.wisconsin.data  penalty

where "penalty" is the chosen value of the penalty parameter. Suitable
values for "penalty" for this data set include 1.0 and 10.0.

=head1 MATLAB INTERFACE

The SVM code may be invoked from Matlab. Documentation for this
interface may be read within Matlab. See the
L<README_Matlab|distribution-docs::README_Matlab> file
for instruction on how to install
the Matlab interface. One the interface is installed, type

	help ooqp_svm

at the Matlab prompt.

=head1 FIN

=for html
Back to the <A HREF=../index.html> Documentation Roadmap </A>.

=cut
