=head1 NAME

examples/README - Documentation of the examples provided with the 
  OOQP distribution

=for html
This page is part of the <A HREF=../index.html> OOQP documentation </A>.

=head1 src/QpExample

This is the example of how OOQP can be customized to accommodate a new
problem formulation. This particular QP formulation is outlined in the
Users Guide doc/ooqp-userguide.pdf.

The QpExample formulation is created within the OOQP src/ directory
because this is where we suggest users create any new QP
formulations. To build the QpExample, type
   
    make qpexample-dense-gondzio.exe 

within the top level OOQP directory. The
B<qpexample-dense-gondzio.exe> program will solve a randomly generated
problem.

=head1 examples/Svm

Sample data files for use with the B<svm-gondzio.exe> program. See
L<Svm|formulations::Svm> for more information.

=head1 examples/Huber

Sample data files for use with the B<huber-gondzio.exe> program. See
L<Huber|formulations::Huber> for more information.

=head1 examples/QpBound

Sample data files for the B<qpbound-dense-gondzio.exe> and
B<qpbound-petsc-mehrotra.exe> programs. See L<QpBound|formulations::QpBound> for more
information.

=head1 examples/QpGen

Sample data and programs for use with the default program
formulation. Several subdirectory of this directory contain source code for
building programs that link against the OOQP libraries. These programs
are intended to be sample code for the interfaces described in
Section 2 of the OOQP User Guide.

=for html
You may read the <A HREF=../ooqp-userguide.pdf> OOQP User Guide </A> online.

The makefiles accompanying the sample programs are not under the
control of OOQP's B<configure> script because they are designed to be
stand-alone examples of how users might write simple
makefiles. Therefore, it is likely that users will need to edit these
files before building the sample programs, for instance to set the
C<CXX> variable to the name of the appropriate C++ compiler.  Users
who are unsure of the appropriate values for the makefile variables
should look to the F<GNUmakefile> in the OOQP directory for
guidance. The values set in F<GNUmakefile> were determined by
B<configure> to be appropriate for this system.

=head2 examples/QpGen/ampl

Contains model and data files for use with the AMPL modeling
language.  These files are described in the OOQP User Guide.


=head2 examples/QpGen/cinterface

Contains code to build the programs B<example.exe> and B<mps.exe>
that demonstrate invoking the OOQP solver as a C routine.

Neither program takes any arguments.  The B<example.exe> program
contains all the data to define a simple QP. The B<mps.exe> program
reads the problem given in F<examples/QpGen/sample-qps/Example.qps>.

=head2 example/QpGen/cplusplus

Contains code to build the program B<cxx_example.exe> that
demonstrates invoking the OOQP solver from C++ code. This program
takes no arguments; it contains all the data to define a simple QP.

=head2 examples/QpGen/random

Code to generate the B<qpgen-sparse-random.exe> program, which solves
randomly generated sparse QPs. This program may be invoked as follows,

B<qpgen-sparse-random.exe> n my mz

where C<n> is the number of primal variables, C<my> is the number of
equality constraints, and C<mz> is the number of inequality
constraints.

=head2 examples/QpGen/sample-qps

Contains one or more sample QPs in QPS format.

=head1 FIN

=for html
Back to the <A HREF=../index.html> Documentation Roadmap </A>.

=cut